::red
BLADES / CLAWS / FANGS (OPTIONAL): When this character is given a close combat action, roll one d6 after making a successful attack roll. The result replaces this character's damage value when resolving the attack. If the target was blocking terrain, a wall, or an object, it is destroyed on a result of 3–6.
::orange
ENERGY EXPLOSION (OPTIONAL): Give this character a ranged combat action; its damage value becomes 1 until the attack has been resolved. For each target hit by the attack, compare the result of the attack roll to the defense value of each character adjacent to the target to determine if the attack also succeeds against them. Ignore the hindering terrain modifier resulting from character(s) adjacent to the target when determining if the attack succeeds against additional characters. Each character successfully hit is dealt damage equal to the number of times it was hit by this attack (characters adjacent to multiple targets may be hit more than once by this attack). A critical hit with this attack automatically hits the target(s) and any characters adjacent to the target(s), and deals 1 additional damage to all characters hit. Powers that allow a character to evade attacks are rolled only once after this character's ranged combat action has been resolved. If a character evades, it evades all hits by this attack. This power can't be used to target blocking terrain or objects.
::yellow
PULSE WAVE (OPTIONAL): Give this character a ranged combat action; halve its range value until the action has been resolved. All powers and team abilities possessed or used by, and feats assigned to, characters within range of this attack are ignored until the action has been resolved. Wild cards using this power may use the team ability of a friendly character within range of this attack. At least one opposing character must be within range of this attack to activate this power. Draw lines of fire to every character (friendly and opposing) within range in every direction; these lines of fire ignore characters, but are affected normally by terrain. If clear lines of fire can be drawn to two or more characters, this character's damage value becomes 1 for this attack; otherwise, do not replace this character's damage value. Make a single attack roll and compare the result to the defense value of each character in range; each character hit is dealt damage. Attacks made with this power do not target characters.
::lime
QUAKE (OPTIONAL): Give this character a close combat action; until the attack has been resolved, its damage value becomes 2 if it is greater than 2. Make a single attack roll and compare the result to the defense values of all opposing characters adjacent to this character. Each character that takes damage from this attack is knocked back.
::green
SUPER STRENGTH (OPTIONAL): When this character moves as part of a move action, power action, or free action, it can pick up an object as a free action and carry it. The object must be either in a square the character occupies or in an adjacent square. This character can use an object it picks up as a weapon. If this power is lost or countered while this character is holding an object, immediately place the object in the square this character occupies. This power can't be canceled while this character is carrying an object. When this character makes a close combat attack targeting blocking terrain, a wall, or an object, modify its damage value by +2 for the attack; if the character is carrying an object when it makes the attack, remove the object from the game.
::blue
INCAPACITATE (OPTIONAL): Give this character a close combat action or ranged combat action; its damage value becomes 0 until the action has been resolved. If this character successfully hits a target that has zero or one action token, give the target an action token.
::dblue
PSYCHIC BLAST (OPTIONAL): Give this character a ranged combat action. Damage from the attack is penetrating damage.
::purple
SMOKE CLOUD (OPTIONAL): Give this character a power action; place up to four hindering terrain markers on the battlefield within this character's range. Each hindering terrain marker must be placed adjacent to another hindering terrain marker created by this character. If this character has a range of 0, it can place the markers only in the square it occupies and/or in adjacent squares. This character must have a clear line of fire to at least one of the hindering terrain markers. These markers can't be placed on blocking terrain but can be placed on hindering terrain or in squares occupied by characters. These terrain markers remain in place until the beginning of your next turn or until this power is countered or lost. A soaring character can't use this power.
::brown
POISON (OPTIONAL): Once at the beginning of your turn, as a free action this character deals 1 damage to each opposing character adjacent to it.
::black
STEAL ENERGY: Each time an opposing character takes damage from a close combat attack made by this character, this character is healed of 1 damage.
::gray
TELEKINESIS (OPTIONAL): Give this character a power action and choose one of the following options. (For option 1 and 2, the target automatically breaks away and ignores the effects of characters and hindering terrain on movement. The target can be placed on elevated terrain but can't be placed on or in blocking terrain. This character must have a clear line of fire to the target's square.) (1) This character makes one close combat attack that deals no damage. If the attack succeeds, move the target up to 10 squares. (2) This character moves a target adjacent object that is not being held or a target adjacent friendly character up to 10 squares. (3) This character makes a ranged combat attack using an object that is not held by another character (see "Objects" in the rulebook). This character must have a clear line of fire to the target of the attack.
