::red
FLURRY (OPTIONAL): Give this character a close combat action. It makes two separate close combat attacks as free actions (making two separate attack rolls) against one or two adjacent targets. Resolve the first attack before making the second. If this character loses Flurry prior to making the second attack, it can't make the second attack.
::orange
LEAP / CLIMB (OPTIONAL): When you give this character a move action, it automatically breaks away and ignores the effects of characters, hindering terrain, elevated terrain, and outdoor blocking terrain on movement. When you give this character a close combat action, it can target a grounded or flying character regardless of the target's elevation or flight mode. 
::yellow
PHASING / TELEPORT (OPTIONAL): Give this character a power action and move it up to its speed value. It automatically breaks away and ignores the effects of characters, hindering terrain, elevated terrain, and blocking terrain on movement. This character can't end its movement in or on blocking terrain.
::lime
EARTHBOUND: This character has the foot speed mode instead of its printed speed mode and the normal damage mode if it has the giant damage mode. If this character is soaring when it gains Earthbound, deal it 1 damage. This power can't be countered. 
::green
CHARGE (OPTIONAL): Give this character a power action; halve its speed value for the action. Move this character up to its replacement speed value and then give it one close combat action as a free action. A character with this power ignores knock back and other characters' Force Blast.
::blue
MIND CONTROL (OPTIONAL): Give this character a power action; it makes a close combat or ranged combat attack as a free action. A successful attack deals no damage; instead, the target becomes friendly to your force and opposing to your opponent's force, and any of the target's canceled powers return until it returns to its owner's force. Each target hit can be assigned one action as a free action. Immediately upon resolving this action, the target becomes an opposing character to you and friendly to its owner's force. This character takes 1 damage for each 100 points of the successfully hit targets' combined point value. If this character has a range value of 0, its range value is 4 for purposes of this power and can't be further modified.
::darkblue
PLASTICITY (OPTIONAL): This character can break away on break away results of 2–6. Opposing characters that roll to break away from this character must roll a 6 to break away. If opposing characters with Plasticity are adjacent, they ignore the effects of each other's Plasticity.
::purple
FORCE BLAST (OPTIONAL): Give this character a power action and roll a d6; a single target adjacent opposing character is knocked back from this character a number of squares equal to the result. The target automatically breaks away, and can move through squares adjacent to opposing characters. The target can be dealt knock back damage.
::brown
HYPERSONIC SPEED (OPTIONAL): Choose one of the following options: (1) Give this character a power action. It automatically breaks away and can move through squares adjacent to opposing characters. During its move, this character can as a free action make one close combat attack or one ranged combat attack with its range value halved for the attack. This character must be in a square where it could legally end its move in order to make the attack. This character can continue to use the rest of its movement after making the attack. (2) Give this character a power action. It makes a close combat attack as a free action; its damage value becomes 1. If the attack succeeds, this character may continue to make close combat attacks as free actions against the same target until this character declares an end to the attacks or an attack fails. After each successful attack, modify the target's defense value by +1 and this character's damage value by +1 before making the next attack. When this character stops attacking or an attack fails, deal damage to the target equal to the attacker's modified damage value at the time of the last successful attack. If there were no successful attacks, the attack deals 0 damage. If doubles are rolled during any successful attack, knock back occurs only after damage from the power action is taken. Powers that allow a character to evade attacks are activated once after the power action has been resolved.  
::black
STEALTH (OPTIONAL): Any line of fire drawn to this character that crosses hindering terrain, including a square of hindering terrain occupied by this character, is treated as though it crosses blocking terrain.
::gray
RUNNING SHOT (OPTIONAL): Give this character a power action; halve its speed value for the action. Move this character up to its replacement speed value and give it one ranged combat action as a free action. This character must declare a target to which it can draw a clear line of fire from the square where it intends to end its move in order to use this power.
